---
layout: post
title:  "意义--人生の意味は何ですか？"
ref: welcome
date:   2020-07-05
tags: deep-learning-lectures
lang: 中文
---

什么是人生的意义？就是每天早上起床的理由吧。
our ikigai is the reason we get up in the morning

可以是为了吃到好吃的早餐
可以是为了赶上火车飞机
可以是为了打扮赴约
可以是为了晨跑


existential crisis is typical of modern societies in which people do what they are told to do, or what others do, rather than what they want to do. they often try to fill the gap between what is expected of them and what they want for themselves with economic power or physical pleasure, or by numbing their senses.

a donkey that is tied to a post by a rope will keep walking around the post in an attempt to free itself, only to become more immobilized and attached to the post. the same thing applies to people with obsessive thinking who become more trapped in their own suffering when they try to escape from their fears and discomfort.

1. What have I received from person X?

2. What have I given to person X?

3. What problems have I caused person X?

What makes us enjoy doing something so much that we forget about whatever worries we might have while we do it? When are we happiest? These questions can help us discover our ikigai.

Artists know how important it is to protect their space, control their environment, and be free of distractions if they want to flow with their ikigai.

The happiest people are not the ones who achieve the most. They are the ones who spend more time than others in a state of flow.


Flow is mysterious. It is like a muscle: the more you train it, the more you will flow, and the closer you will be to your ikigai.

The ten rules of ikigai:

1. Stay active; don't retire. 

Those who give up the things they love doing and do well lose their purpose in life. That's why it's so important to keep doing things of value, making progress, bringing beauty or utility to others, helping out, and shaping the world around you, even after your "official" professional activity has ended.

2. Take it slow.

Being in a hurry is inversely proportional to quality of life. As the old saying goes, "Walk slowly and you'll go far." When we leave urgency behind, life and time take on new meaning.

3. Don't fill your stomach.

Less is more when it comes to eating for long life, too. According to the 80 percent rule, in order to stay healthier longer, we should eat a little less than our hunger demands instead of stuffing ourselves.

4. Surround yourself with good friends.

Friends are the best medicine, there for confiding worries over a good chat, sharing stories that brighten your day, getting advice, having fun, dreaming... in other words, living.

5. Get in shape for your next birthday.

Water moves; it is at its best when it flows fresh and doesn't stagnate. The body you move through life in needs a bit of daily maintenance to keep it running for a long time. Plus, exercise releases hormones that make us feel happy.

6. Smile.

A cheerful attitude is not only relaxing--it also helps make friends. It's good to recognize the things that aren't so great, but we should never forget what a priviledge it is to be in the here and now in a world so full of possibilites.

7. Reconnect with nature.

Though most people live in cities these days, human beings are made to be part of the natural world. We should return to it often to recharge our batteries.

8. Give thanks. 

To your ancestors, to nature, which provides you with the air you breathe and the food you eat, to your friends and family, to everything that brightens your days and makes you feel lucky to be alive. Spend a moment every day giving thanks, and you'll watch your stockpile of happiness grow.

9. Live in the moment.

Stop regretting the past and fearing the future. Today is all you have. Make the most of it. Make it worth remembering.

10. Follow your ikigai.

There is a passion inside you, a unique talent that gives meaning to your days and drives you to share the best of yourself until the very end. If you don't know what your ikigai is yet, as Viktor Frankl says, your mission is to discover it.